RFC0130/mining (#22)
tari-project/tari: RFC/src/RFC-0130_Mining.md

Assuming the Tari difficulty is less than the Monero difficulty, miners get rewarded for solving the PoW at any difficulty above the Tari difficulty. If the block is solved above the Tari difficulty, a new Tari block is mined. If the difficulty is also greater than the Monero difficulty, a new Monero block is mined as well. In either event, the header for the candidate Monero block is included in the Tari block header.

If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains, then the individual blocks for each blockchain can be sent from the Mining Server to the Base Node and Monero Node to be added to the different blockchains.  Before the Mining Server sends the new Tari block to the Base Node it must first update it by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, Merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. If the PoW solution found by the Mining Workers only solved the problem at the Tari difficulty, then the new Tari block must be updated and added to the Tari blockchain and the Monero block can be discarded. 

> This process will ensure that the Tari difficulty remains independent. Adjusting the difficulty will ensure that the Tari block times are preserved. Also, the Tari block time is (hard fork) flexible and can be less than, equal or greater than the Monero block times. A more detailed description of the Merged Mining process between a Primary and Auxiliary blockchain is provided in the [Merged Mining TLU report] (https://tlu.tarilabs.com/merged-mining/merged-mining.html).

Author: The sentence was revised and the "hard fork flexible" part was removed.

#### Functionality required by the Tari Mining Server

- The Tari blockchain MUST have the ability to be merged mined with Monero. 
- The Mining Server MUST maintain a local or remote connection with a Base Node and a Monero Node.
- It MUST have a mechanism to construct a new Tari and Monero block by selecting transactions from the different Tari and Monero mempools that need to be included in the different blocks.
- It MAY have a configurable transaction selection mechanism for the block construction process. 
- It MAY have the ability to re-verify transactions before including them in a new Tari block.
- It MUST have the ability to include the block header hash of the new Tari block into the coinbase section of a newly created Monero block to enable merged mining.

> - It MUST be able to include the Monero block header hash, Merkel tree branch and hash of the coinbase transaction of the Monero block into the PoW summary field of the new Tari block header. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It MUST be able to include the Monero block header hash, Merkle tree branch and hash of the coinbase transaction of the Monero block into the PoW summary field of the new Tari block header. 
```

Author: Word was corrected in new PR.

- It MUST have the ability to transmit and distribute PoW tasks for the newly created Monero block, that contains the Tari block information, to connected Mining Workers.
- It MUST verify PoW solutions received from Mining Workers and it MUST reject and discard invalid solutions or solutions that do not meet the minimum required difficulty.
- The Mining Server MAY keep track of mining share contributions of the connected Mining Workers. 
- It MUST submit completed Tari blocks to the Tari Base Node.
- It MUST submit completed Monero blocks to the Monero Network.  

#### Functionality required by the Tari Mining Worker

- It MUST maintain a local or remote connection to a Mining Server.

- It MUST have the ability to receive PoW tasks from the connected Mining Server. 

- It MUST have the ability to perform the latest released version of Monero's PoW algorithm on the received PoW tasks.

> - It MUST attempt to solve the PoW algorithm at the Tari and/or Monero difficulties. 

Reviewer: Isn't it possible that Worker nodes get much lower difficulties if they're part of a large pool?

Author: Your comment is true, allowing Mining Workers to send lower difficulty solutions to the Mining Server is a method used to track mining share contributions in a pool.
The item was changed to "It MUST attempt to solve the PoW task at the difficulty specified by the Mining Server. "

   disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
   derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Language

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", 
"NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in 
```

> "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[BCP 14](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp14) [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as 
shown here.
```

Reviewer 2: RFC8174 has been superseded by RFC8174

their respective blockchains.

### Merged mining on the Tari Base Layer

This document is divided into three parts. First, a brief overview of the merged mining process and the interactions 
between the Base Node, Mining Server and Mining Worker will be provided, then the primary functionality required 
of the Mining Server and Mining Worker will be proposed.

####  Overview of the Tari merged mining process using Mining Servers and Mining Workers

Mining on the Tari Base Layer consists of three primary entities: the Base Nodes, Mining Servers and Mining Workers. 
A description of the Base Node is provided in [RFC-0110/Base Nodes] (https://tari-project.github.io/tari/RFC-0110_BaseNodes.html).
A Mining Server is connected locally or remotely to a Tari Base Node and a Monero Node, and is responsible for 
constructing Tari and Monero Blocks from their respective mempools. The Mining Server should retrieve transactions 
from the mempool of the connected Base Node and assemble a new Tari block by bundling transactions together.

Mining servers may re-verify transactions before including them in a new Tari block, but this 

> verification process of checking that the transaction's rules such as signatures and timelocks are enforced is the 

Reviewer 3: this sentence doesnt read weird. Perhaps refactor to something in the likes of: but this enforcement of 
verification and transaction rules such as signatures and timelocks is the responsibility of the connected Base node.

Author: Change applied in new PR.

the header for the candidate Monero block is included in the Tari block header.

If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains, then the individual blocks for each blockchain can be sent from the Mining Server to the Base Node and Monero Node to be added to the respective blockchains.  

Every Tari block must include the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, Merkle tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. 
If the PoW solution found by the Mining Workers only solved the problem at the Tari difficulty, the Monero block can be discarded. 

This process will ensure that the Tari difficulty remains independent. Adjusting the difficulty will ensure that 
the Tari block times are preserved. Also, the Tari block time can be less than, equal 
or greater than the Monero block times. A more detailed description of the Merged Mining process between a Primary 
and Auxiliary blockchain is provided in the [Merged Mining TLU report] (https://tlu.tarilabs.com/merged-mining/merged-mining.html).

> #### Functionality required by the Tari Mining Server

Reviewer 3: what about mining pool support?

between the Base Node, Mining Server and Mining Worker will be provided, then the primary functionality required 
of the Mining Server and Mining Worker will be proposed.

####  Overview of the Tari merged mining process using Mining Servers and Mining Workers

Mining on the Tari Base Layer consists of three primary entities: the Base Nodes, Mining Servers and Mining Workers. 
A description of the Base Node is provided in [RFC-0110/Base Nodes] (https://tari-project.github.io/tari/RFC-0110_BaseNodes.html).
A Mining Server is connected locally or remotely to a Tari Base Node and a Monero Node, and is responsible for 
constructing Tari and Monero Blocks from their respective mempools. The Mining Server should retrieve transactions 
from the mempool of the connected Base Node and assemble a new Tari block by bundling transactions together.

Mining servers may re-verify transactions before including them in a new Tari block, but this enforcement of 
verification and transaction rules such as signatures and timelocks is the responsibility of the connected Base node.

To enable Merged mining of Tari with Monero, both a Tari and a Monero block needs to be created and linked. First, 

> a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block should be included in the coinbase 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block is included in the coinbase 
```

It's not optional, is it?

# RFC-0130: Mining

## Full-node mining on Tari base layer

> ![status: raw](theme/images/status-raw.svg)

Author: Fixed in PR

WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

## Disclaimer

The purpose of this document and its content is for information purposes only and may be subject to change or update
without notice.

This document may include preliminary concepts that may or may not be in the process of being developed by the Tari
community. The release of this document is intended solely for review and discussion by the community regarding the
technological merits of the potential system outlined herein.

## Goals

This document will provide an overview of the Tari mining process and will propose the primary functionality required for the Tari full-node miner.

## Related RFCs

* [RFC-0100: Base layer](RFC-0100_BaseLayer.md)

## Description

### Assumptions

> - That the Tari blockchain will be merged mined with Monero 

Reviewer 2: Suggest use MUST, SHOULD or MAY here instead of will (or lower case if this is just conversational).

Author: Made the change

Reviewer 2: Maybe this one slipped through, I do not see the change.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this one slipped through, I do not see the change.

### Abstract

> The process of mining on the Tari base layer is responsible for confirming and adding valid transactions to the Tari blockchain and distributing transactions on the Tari base layer network. This task is achieved by validating transactions and by performing Nakamoto consensus through Proof-of-Work. New blocks on the Tari blockchain can be merged mined with Monero by linking Tari blocks to solved Monero blocks.  

Reviewer 2: Be specific, is it will be merged mined or can be merged mined? So is it MUST, SHOULD or MAY?

Author: Changed to "New blocks on the Tari blockchain will be merged mined with Monero by linking Tari blocks and Monero blocks."

### Full-node mining on Tari base layer

> The document is divided into two parts. First an overview will be provided describing the Tari merge mining process, then a descriptive list of the primary functionality required by the Tari full-node miner will be proposed.

Reviewer 2: Be consistent with the term "_**merged** mining_" throughout. It is not "_merge mining_".

Author: Corrected everywhere.

> ####  Overview of Tari merged mining process

Reviewer 2: Add something about the Tari block times. This property is (hard fork) flexible and can be less than, equal or greater than the Monero block times.

Author: Added a small sentence after paragraph dealing with difficulty.

> Valid transactions that need to be included on the Tari blockchain should be propagated by the mining full-nodes on the Tari base layer network. A Tari mining full-node should retrieve transactions from its mempool and assemble a new Tari block by bundling transactions together. It should ensure that the transactions that are included in the new Tari block are valid and that rules such as signatures, multi-signatures and timelocks are enforced before they are including in a new block.

Reviewer 2: Use capital MUST, SHOULD or MAY if the text is intended as a requirement or lower case if this is just conversational. Apply throughout.

Reviewer 2: Use links to terms like **mempool** where those exist in the glossary. Apply throughout.

Reviewer 2: Most use of **should** here seems to be **MUST** intended. Please review the complete file and apply appropriate requirement construct where applicable.

Reviewer 2: Multi-signatures implies pre-knowledge of some sorts as enforcing multi-signatures are not supported by the Mimblewimble protocol.

Author: - Text changed to make use of upper case MUST, SHOULD or MAY
- The glossary seems empty at this point in time.
- I have changed the majority to MUST
- I removed multi-signatures

> As Tari could be merged mined with Monero, both a Tari and Monero block needs to be created and linked by including Tari block information in the Monero block, and Monero block information in the Tari block. First, a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block should be included in the coinbase transaction of the new Monero block. Once the block construction is complete, the mining full-node should perform the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm on the Monero block that includes the information of the new Tari block. 

Reviewer 3: As Tari could be merged mined with Monero, both a Tari and :heavy_exclamation_mark: **_a_** :heavy_exclamation_mark: Monero block needs to be created and linked by including :heavy_exclamation_mark: **_the_** :heavy_exclamation_mark: Tari block information in the Monero block, and Monero block information in the Tari block. First, a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block should be included in the coinbase transaction of the new Monero block. Once the block construction is complete, the mining full-node should perform the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm on the Monero block that includes the information of the new Tari block.

> As Tari could be merged mined with Monero, both a Tari and a Monero block needs to be created and linked by including the Tari block information in the Monero block, and Monero block information in the Tari block. First, a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block should be included in the coinbase transaction of the new Monero block. Once the block construction is complete, the mining full-node should perform the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm on the Monero block that includes the information of the new Tari block. 

Author: Fixed in PR

> The solution to the PoW problem could be solved at the difficulty of either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain, then the new Tari block should be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain. If the solution met the difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain then the new Monero block can also be added to the Monero blockchain. If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains then the individual blocks for each cryptocurrency can be added to their respective blockchains.

Reviewer: I suggest rewriting this paragraph. Most of it is repeating what was said in the pvs para.

Perhaps something like 

> Assuming the Tari difficulty is less than the Monero difficulty, miners get rewarded for solving the PoW at any difficulty above the Tari difficulty. If the block is solved above the Tari difficulty, a new Tari block is mined. If the difficulty is also greater than the Monero difficulty, a new Monero block is mined as well.

> In either event, the header for the candidate Monero block is included in the Tari block header.

Possibly just link to the TLU article here for those seeking further details,

> The solution to the PoW problem could be solved at the difficulty of either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the Tari and/or Monero blockchain, then the new Tari block should be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain. If the solution met the difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain then the new Monero block can also be added to the Monero blockchain. If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains then the individual blocks for each cryptocurrency can be added to their respective blockchains.

Reviewer 3: contains part that is repeated

The solution to the PoW problem could be solved at the difficulty of either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the Tari and/or Monero blockchain, then the new Tari block should be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. :heavy_exclamation_mark: If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty :heavy_exclamation_mark: then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain. If the solution met the difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain then the new Monero block can also be added to the Monero blockchain. If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains then the individual blocks for each cryptocurrency can be added to their respective blockchains.

Solved and completed blocks should be propagated to the rest of the base layer network so that Nakamoto consensus can be performed on the new block and it can be added to the local blockchain copies of the full mining nodes.

> ####  Primary functionality required by a Tari full-node miner

Reviewer: Is "full-node miner" the right terminology here? 🤔

> ####  Primary functionality required by a Tari full-node miner

Reviewer 2: Add something like "_The Tari full-node miner MUST be fully compatible with the Monero blockchain miner requirements._"

Author: Added as extra bullet

> - The Tari blockchain should have the ability to be merged mined with Monero using the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work algorithm. 

Reviewer: Could you work through this section again using RFC2119 conventions? This entails capitalising MUST, SHOULD etc., where those requirements are stated.

Given that this RFC assumes merge mining, this would surely be a MUST, right? i.e. there's no valid Tari node software that only mines Tari, correct?

Author: Suggested changes were implemented.

> - The Tari blockchain should have the ability to be merged mined with Monero using the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work algorithm. 

Reviewer 2: The Monero CryptoNight PoW algorithm is evolving. Maybe clarify that it is the latest released version of the Monero CryptoNight PoW algorithm.

Author: Changed sentence to "The Tari blockchain MUST have the ability to be merged mined with Monero using the latest released version of the Monero CryptoNight PoW algorithm."

- The Tari full-node miner must maintain complete or pruned copies of the Tari and Monero blockchains.

> - It must be able to transmit and propagate information on the Tari base layer network using peer-to-peer communication using a gossip protocol. It could also propagate information and blocks on the Monero network.

Reviewer: It SHOULD interact with the Monero network? Maybe even MUST?

Author: I changed it to "SHOULD" as it is recommended, but the miner could still function inefficiently without doing it.

> - It should have a mechanism to construct a new Tari and Monero block by selecting transactions from the different Tari and Monero mempools that need to be included in the different blocks.

Reviewer: Block construction strategies are a MUST at least, (an empty block strategy would count).

Author: I agree, I made the change

- It must have the ability to include the block header hash of the new Tari block into the coinbase section of a newly created Monero block to enable merged mining.

> - It must be able to include the Monero block header hash, merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction of the Monero block into the PoW summary field of the new Tari block header. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It must be able to include the Monero block header hash, Merkle tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction of the Monero block into the PoW summary field of the new Tari block header. 
```

Author: Made change in PR

> - It must have the ability to perform a PoW algorithm on the newly created Monero block, that contains the Tari block information. It should then attempting to solve the PoW algorithm at the desired Tari or Monero difficulty.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It must have the ability to perform a PoW algorithm on the newly created Monero block, that contains the Tari block information. It should then attempt to solve the PoW algorithm at the lower of the Tari and Monero difficulties.  
```

Author: Change made in PR

> - It must have the ability to perform a PoW algorithm on the newly created Monero block, that contains the Tari block information. It should then attempting to solve the PoW algorithm at the desired Tari or Monero difficulty.  

Reviewer 2: This implies state machine logic, not functionality: "It should then attempting to solve ..."
Remove or rewrite into a functionality statement.

Author: Revised sentenced by adding different bullet point " It MUST attempt to solve the PoW algorithm at the Tari and/or Monero difficulties. "

> - It must have the functionality to verify the validity of a newly received or created block for either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. Created or received valid Tari blocks should be included in the local Tari blockchain. Created or received valid Monero blocks should be included in the local Monero blockchain.

Reviewer: I don't believe this is a merge-mining requirement. This requirement is carried out by the respective full node implementations.

Author: I removed the requirement.

> - Valid Tari and/or Monero blocks should be propagated to other mining nodes on the Tari base layer network and/or the Monero network. 

Reviewer: Again, this is what the base nodes will do. The mining code only does mining.

Author: This RFC is probably more appropriate as an RFC for a "base layer node" or it might have to be split up a bit, see my suggestion below.. What I called a full-node miner is actually a base layer node. The requirements were derived from the tasks of a node provided in the original bitcoin paper on page 3 (https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf). Also, I called it a full-node miner (for a lack of a better name) to try and differentiate it from a mining worker that is only receiving PoW tasks from the mining pool operator.  In this example, the mining pool operator is actually a full-node miner or base layer node that is only distributing his PoW tasks.

I think it might be appropriate to break down the base-layer into 3 parts:
- Base Layer Node: Maintains a Tari blockchain and distributes completed Blocks and valid Transactions on Base layer network.
- Mining Node: Constructs blocks from transactions in mempool of connected Base Layer Node, can perform local PoW or can distribute PoW to Mining Workers, and distribute solved blocks to connected Base layer Node.
- Mining Worker: Does not construct blocks but only perform PoW tasks for a connected Mining Node.

> - The Tari full-node miner must reject and discard invalid Tari and/or Monero blocks.  

Reviewer: ditto

Author: "full-node miner" was removed from text

- The Tari full-node miner must reject and discard invalid Tari and/or Monero blocks.  

> 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps add here, that is must have one click installer/miner with GUI

Reviewer: @SWvheerden That's not a requirement for merge-mining -- which is on the domain layer-- but a  desirable feature that sits on the application layer. 

I actually suggest taking the reference out again in this RFC

community. The release of this document is intended solely for review and discussion by the community regarding the
technological merits of the potential system outlined herein.

## Goals

This document will provide an overview of the Tari mining process and will propose the primary functionality required for the Tari full-node miner.

## Related RFCs

* [RFC-0100: Base layer](RFC-0100_BaseLayer.md)

## Description

### Assumptions
- That the Tari blockchain will be merged mined with Monero 

### Abstract

The process of mining on the Tari base layer is responsible for confirming and adding valid transactions to the Tari blockchain and distributing transactions on the Tari base layer network. This task is achieved by validating transactions and by performing Nakamoto consensus through Proof-of-Work. New blocks on the Tari blockchain will be merged mined with Monero by linking Tari blocks and Monero blocks.  

### Full-node mining on Tari base layer

The document is divided into two parts. First an overview will be provided describing the Tari merged mining process, then a descriptive list of the primary functionality required by the Tari full-node miner will be proposed.

> ####  Overview of Tari merged mining process

Reviewer 2: Although in the conversational lower case format, the overview still contains to many **should** statements. One gets the feeling all of this are optional.

Author: The majority of the proposed items were changed to "MUST".

> Valid transactions that need to be included on the Tari blockchain should be propagated by the mining full-nodes on the Tari base layer network. A Tari mining full-node should retrieve transactions from its mempool and assemble a new Tari block by bundling transactions together. It should ensure that the transactions that are included in the new Tari block are valid and that rules such as signatures and timelocks are enforced before they are included in a new block.

Reviewer 2: Use links to terms like **mempool** where those exist in the glossary (enclose in block brackets). Apply throughout.

Author: Terms were linked for first uses.

> As Tari is merged mined with Monero, both a Tari and a Monero block need to be created and linked by including some Tari block information in the Monero block, and some Monero block information in the Tari block. First, a new Tari block is created and then the block header hash of the new Tari block should be included in the coinbase transaction of the new Monero block. Once the block construction is complete, the mining full-node should perform the CryptoNight Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm on the Monero block that includes the information of the new Tari block. 

Reviewer 2: I think we should not imply that CryptoNight for Monero is set in stone. Maybe rephrase to something like "_the mining full-node should perform Monero's Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm on the Monero block that includes the information of the new Tari block_"

Author: CryptoNight was removed from the text.

> The solution to the PoW problem could be solved at the difficulty of either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain, then the new Tari block should be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, Merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain. If the solution met the difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain then the new Monero block can also be added to the Monero blockchain. If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains then the individual blocks for each cryptocurrency can be added to their respective blockchains. The Tari block times is (hard fork) flexible and can be less than, equal or greater than the Monero block times.

Reviewer 2: The criteria for a Tari block to be added to the Tari blockchain is to solve the Monero block with Tari embedded information at the Tari difficulty.
1.  Suggest: "_If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the **Tari** blockchain, then the new Tari block **must** be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information_"
2. This sentence must be deleted: "_If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain._"

Author: Suggested changes implemented, but entire section revised so some sentences might have been removed completely.

> The solution to the PoW problem could be solved at the difficulty of either the Tari and/or Monero blockchain. If a solution has been found that meets the minimum difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain, then the new Tari block should be updated by including the solved Monero block’s information (block header hash, Merkel tree branch, and hash of the coinbase transaction) into the PoW summary section of the Tari block header. If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty then the new Tari block can be added to the Tari blockchain. If the solution met the difficulty requirements of the Monero blockchain then the new Monero block can also be added to the Monero blockchain. If the PoW solution was sufficient to meet the difficult level of both the Tari and Monero blockchains then the individual blocks for each cryptocurrency can be added to their respective blockchains. The Tari block times is (hard fork) flexible and can be less than, equal or greater than the Monero block times.

Reviewer 2: Comma needed here (^): "_If a solution was found that meet the Tari or Monero blockchain difficulty^ then the_"

Author: Suggested change implemented

Solved and completed blocks should be propagated to the rest of the base layer network so that Nakamoto consensus can be performed on the new block and it can be added to the local blockchain copies of the full mining nodes.

####  Primary functionality required by a Tari full-node miner

> - The Tari blockchain MUST have the ability to be merged mined with Monero using the latest released version of the Monero CryptoNight PoW algorithm.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as previous, suggest something like "_using the latest released version of Monero's PoW algorithm_"

Author: Proposed changes implemented.

- The Tari full-node miner MUST maintain complete or pruned copies of the Tari and Monero blockchains.

> - It MUST be able to transmit and propagate information on the Tari base layer network using peer-to-peer communication using a gossip protocol. It SHOULD also propagate information and blocks on the Monero network.

Reviewer 2: Suggest making this (_It SHOULD also propagate information and blocks on the Monero network._) into a separate requirement, but MUST instead of SHOULD. Suggest: "_It MUST be able to transmit and propagate information on the Monero network according to the Monero specification._"

Author: Changed it to two different requirements. I left the Monero block propagation as should as it is highly recommended but the system will still function even if it is not done.

Reviewer 2: If mining does not fit into the Monero eco system it is a deal breaker. We cannot release a miner that is not 100% compatible with Monero. Thus SHOULD is not a good idea.

- It MUST have a mechanism to construct a new Tari and Monero block by selecting transactions from the different Tari and Monero mempools that need to be included in the different blocks.
- It MUST have the ability to include the block header hash of the new Tari block into the coinbase section of a newly created Monero block to enable merged mining.
- It MUST be able to include the Monero block header hash, Merkel tree branch and hash of the coinbase transaction of the Monero block into the PoW summary field of the new Tari block header. 
- It MUST have the ability to perform a PoW algorithm on the newly created Monero block, that contains the Tari block information.
- It MUST attempt to solve the PoW algorithm at the Tari and/or Monero difficulties. 

> - Valid Tari and/or Monero blocks SHOULD be propagated to other mining nodes on the Tari base layer network and/or the Monero network. 

Reviewer 2: I would argue MUST instead of SHOULD. This is an absolute requirement of the specification.

Author: Changed it to MUST for Tari blockchain and COULD for the Monero Blockchain.

Reviewer 2: Let's stay with MUST, SHOULD and MAY as per RFC 2119.
Suggest SHOULD.

- The Tari full-node miner MUST reject and discard invalid Tari and/or Monero blocks.  

> - The Tari full-node miner MAY be implemented as a one click installer/miner with a user-friendly GUI.

Reviewer 2: Suggest SHOULD instead of MAY. We should really aim for this.

Author: This requirement was removed.
